hey guys J here hope things well let's
do some more TOEFL reading practice in
this one we're going to look at skill
number six which is called rhetorical
purpose don't worry so much about that
word rhetorical teach you what that
means so the objective of this lesson is
for you to understand the question type
so when you see it on test day you know
exactly what to do and for you to learn
how to answer it accurately so what
we're going to do is this I'm going to
describe the task to you I'm going to
teach you a five-step method it's pretty
simple a method so you can answer it
accurately and they don't give you the
chance to do some practice on your own
let's firstly look at the task and learn
what it looks like so you know what to
do on test day okay this is what you'll
see on test day on the left hand side
you'll see passage of text on the right
hand side you'll see this question type
this question prompt here that says in
paragraph two why does the author
include the information that blah blah
blah this really gives it away that this
is the rhetorical purpose question why
what's the purpose why does the author
include the information that American
wages have been increasing rapidly for
example why and you'll also see in the
answer options purpose statements to
support purpose statement to explain to
explain
to compare so why do they include it to
support to explain to explain to compare
okay we now know what this question type
is so what sorts of reasons we're
looking at rhetorical purposes in other
words why does somebody say something
why did you say that why did the author
say that because we're looking at
reasons to support to explain to compare
to prove to criticize to contrast to
define there are probably more why did
the author say that so that's what we're
trying to do in this question we're
trying to work out the reasons why the
author included
some particular information why cool
let's look at the method step 1 read the
phrase and the answer options so the
phrase is this why does the author
include the information that American
wages have been increasing rapidly so
did the author include this to support
the claim that houses are more
affordable in America did the author
write that to explain why the Australian
housing market had weakened did the
author include it to explain the future
prospects of capital growth in the
housing industry or did the author
include it to compare the strength of
the American economy against that of the
Australian economy right now we need to
turn to the text we need to locate the
phrase in the passage that will give us
the answer ok sorry let me let me
explain this ok we need to locate in a
particular phrase you know in the
question prompt there there was that
phrase we need to find that phrase in
the passage so American wages have been
increasing rapidly let's just scan over
this and find that as a politically
stable country that welcomes foreign
verses you would say but it didn't it
okay well the excellent prospects of
future after declined into two let's go
back American wages have been increasing
rapidly ok here we go here we go wages
have been increasing rapidly so we found
that phrase in the text here
so now we can we can take the next step
we've found that there step 3 reread the
paragraph to find the clues ok so now we
need to read the surrounding sentences
to find the context the reason why okay
so
wages have been increasing rapidly and
the unemployment rate continues to
improve from already low levels this is
in stark contrast to the Australian
economy which is weakened considerably
since the end of the mining boom so
let's just read from here to here read
this one more time with me wages have
been increasing rapidly in America and
the unemployment rate continues to
improve from already low level
this is in stark contrast to the
Australian economy which has weakened
considerably since the end of the mining
boom so why did the author say this to
support the claim that houses are more
affordable in America to explain why the
Australian housing market had weakened
to explain the future prospects of
capital growth in the housing industry
or to compare the strength of the
American economy against that of the
Australian economy step 4 eliminate the
incorrect answers well I'm feeling
pretty confident to eliminate this one
to eliminate this one and to eliminate
this one fine step four and five rather
choose the correct answer it is in fact
D the author included that statement to
compare the strength of the American
economy against that of the Australian
economy cool
that makes sense I hope that makes sense
let's do a little bit of practice now
it's your turn so let's do this one here
give yourself a minute
read the question prompt and find that
phrase the particular phrase in the
passage okay and then choose from a B C
or D the reason why the author included
that information pause the video give
yourself a minute right let's look at
the answer if you haven't done it please
go back and press pause and do try to do
this because it really does help on test
day you need to build those neurons
before test day okay cool so let's have
a look at this without looking at the
answer paragraph four okay cool that's
here why does the author include the
information about the word cafe cafes
and where deals used to get done and
where deals still get done or when
living in a large city in a world of
apartments people tend to invite each
other each other to a cafe and not to
their own home just as restaurants cafes
themselves are relatively in French
history a recent phenomenon even the
word CAF okay here we go
even the word cafe used in this context
new just read this little section here
with me
but just as restaurants cafes themselves
are relatively in French history a
recent phenomenon even the word cafe
used in this context is new so why did
the author include the meaning of the
word cafe or the information about the
word cafe did he do it to define the
meaning of coffee did he do it to
explain why political deals were done in
coffee houses to support the idea that
the phenomenon of the cafe is a
relatively modern one or to illustrate
that the term coffee has changed in
meaning over the years did you get the
answer well the answer is of course see
the author included the information
about the word cafe being relatively new
to support the idea that the phenomenon
of the cafe is relatively modern one
woopsie for TOEFL success check out a
two language comm because you probably
might need to do more practice questions
like this we have heaps of practice
material we have great tutors if you
want to take a tutorial and your writing
or speaking for example we also run live
classes so do check out the website get
some help sign up for free sign up for
free you may want upgrade see how you go
see you soon